Hello-seqera (#413)
nextflow-io/training: docs/hello_nextflow/seqera/01_run_with_cli.md

## 1. Use Seqera Platform to capture and monitor Nextflow jobs launched from the CLI

We'll start by using the Nextflow CLI to launch a pipeline and monitor it in Seqera Platform.
Start by logging into the [Seqera Platform](https://cloud.seqera.io/).

!!! info "Nextflow Tower"

    Seqera Platform was previously known as Nextflow Tower.
    You'll still see references to the previous name in environment variable and cli option names.

### 1.1. Set up your Seqera Platform token by exporting it to your environment

Follow these steps to set up your token:

1.  Create a new token by clicking on the **Settings** drop-down menu:

    ![Create a token](seqera/img/usage_create_token.png)

2.  Name your token:

    ![Name your token](seqera/img/usage_name_token.png)

3.  Save your token safely:

    ![Save token](seqera/img/usage_token.png)

    !!! note

        Leave this browser tab open as we will need the token once more to store it as a Nextflow secret.

> 4.  Export your token:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4.  To make your token available to the Nextflow CLI, export it on the command line:
```

    Open a terminal and type:

    ```bash
    export TOWER_ACCESS_TOKEN=eyxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxQ1ZTE=
    ```

    Where `eyxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxQ1ZTE=` is the token you have just created.

### 1.2. Run Nextflow cli with Seqera Platform visualizing and capturing logs

Run your Nextflow workflows as usual with the addition of the `-with-tower` command:

```bash
nextflow run nextflow-io/hello -with-tower
```

> You will see the following output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will see output similar to the following:
```

```console title="Output"
 N E X T F L O W   ~  version 24.04.4

Launching `https://github.com/nextflow-io/hello` [evil_engelbart] DSL2 - revision: afff16a9b4 [master]

Downloading plugin nf-tower@1.9.1
Monitor the execution with Seqera Platform using this URL: https://cloud.seqera.io/user/kenbrewer/watch/5Gs0qqV9Y9rguE
executor >  local (4)
[80/810411] process > sayHello (1) [100%] 4 of 4 ✔
Ciao world!

Bonjour world!

Hola world!

Hello world!
```

Use ++ctrl+click++ or ++cmd+click++ on the link to open it in your browser.
You'll see the Seqera Platform interface with the job finished and the logs captured.

![Seqera Platform](seqera/img/run_with_tower.png)

You will see and be able to monitor your **Nextflow jobs** in Seqera Platform.

> ### 1.3. Set up Seqera Platform logging by default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1.3. Set up Seqera Platform in Nextflow configuration
```

> To set up Seqera Platform logging by default, we first want to store our token more securely as a [Nextflow secret](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/secrets.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Doing that token setup regularly can get bit tedious, but the same setup can be applied in configuration applied to Nexflow configuration so that it does not need to be set each time. This can be the `nextflow.config` file of a specific project, or the global file located at `$HOME/.nextflow/config`, which will apply to all your runs.

Before we set the configuration, we need to permanently store the token in Nextflow using a 'secret'. To securely store the token as a [Nextflow secret](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/secrets.html):
```

```bash
nextflow secrets set tower_access_token "eyxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxQ1ZTE="
```

> You can set up Seqera Platform logging by default by adding the following line to your `nextflow.config` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then add the following to your `nextflow.config` file to use Seqera Platform for logging by default:
```

> You can set up Seqera Platform logging by default by adding the following line to your `nextflow.config` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set up Seqera Platform logging by default by adding the following line to the appropriate configuration file.
```

```groovy title="nextflow.config"
tower {
    enabled = true
    endpoint = "https://api.cloud.seqera.io"
    accessToken = secrets.tower_access_token
}
```

> Instead of putting this in the `nextflow.config` file of a specific project, you can also put it in the global file located at `$HOME/.nextflow/config`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## 1. Use Seqera Platform to capture and monitor Nextflow jobs launched from the CLI

We'll start by using the Nextflow CLI to launch a pipeline and monitor it in Seqera Platform.
Start by logging into the [Seqera Platform](https://cloud.seqera.io/).

!!! info "Nextflow Tower"

    Seqera Platform was previously known as Nextflow Tower.

>     You'll still see references to the previous name in environment variable and cli option names.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    You'll still see references to the previous name in environment variable and CLI option names.
```

Author: Fixed.

### 1.1. Set up your Seqera Platform token by exporting it to your environment

Follow these steps to set up your token:

1.  Create a new token by clicking on the **Settings** drop-down menu:

>     ![Create a token](seqera/img/usage_create_token.png)

Reviewer 3: The images are a bit small, see if you can increase the zoom level to make them more readable. (ok to leave as a future improvement)

Author: Will leave for future improvement.

2.  Name your token:

    ![Name your token](seqera/img/usage_name_token.png)

3.  Save your token safely:

    ![Save token](seqera/img/usage_token.png)

    !!! note

>         Leave this browser tab open as we will need the token once more to store it as a Nextflow secret.

Reviewer 3: This confused me, I thought you meant the browser in which I'm reading the instructions. Maybe say 'that tab' or something like that to differentiate.

Author: Clarified.

4.  To make your token available to the Nextflow CLI, export it on the command line:

    Open a terminal and type:

    ```bash
    export TOWER_ACCESS_TOKEN=eyxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxQ1ZTE=
    ```

    Where `eyxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxQ1ZTE=` is the token you have just created.

> ### 1.2. Run Nextflow cli with Seqera Platform visualizing and capturing logs

Reviewer 3: capitalize CLI

Reviewer 2: I added a suggestion so that one can just commit suggestion (or batch them to commit at once).

> ### 1.2. Run Nextflow cli with Seqera Platform visualizing and capturing logs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1.2. Run Nextflow CLI with Seqera Platform visualizing and capturing logs
```

> Run your Nextflow workflows as usual with the addition of the `-with-tower` command:

Reviewer 3: 'as usual with the addition of' is a bit ambiguous, would separate / clarify

Author: Fixed.

```bash
nextflow run nextflow-io/hello -with-tower
```

You will see output similar to the following:

```console title="Output"
 N E X T F L O W   ~  version 24.04.4

Launching `https://github.com/nextflow-io/hello` [evil_engelbart] DSL2 - revision: afff16a9b4 [master]

Downloading plugin nf-tower@1.9.1
Monitor the execution with Seqera Platform using this URL: https://cloud.seqera.io/user/kenbrewer/watch/5Gs0qqV9Y9rguE
executor >  local (4)
[80/810411] process > sayHello (1) [100%] 4 of 4 ✔
Ciao world!

Bonjour world!

Hola world!

Hello world!
```

> Use ++ctrl+click++ or ++cmd+click++ on the link to open it in your browser.

Reviewer 2: What's this ++cctrl+click++? It's not rendering anything.

Author: This is the syntax I'm using https://facelessuser.github.io/pymdown-extensions/extensions/keys/. Apparently `click` isn't a key code.
Fixed.

You'll see the Seqera Platform interface with the job finished and the logs captured.

![Seqera Platform](seqera/img/run_with_tower.png)

You will see and be able to monitor your **Nextflow jobs** in Seqera Platform.

### 1.3. Set up Seqera Platform in Nextflow configuration

> Doing that token setup regularly can get bit tedious, but the same setup can be applied in configuration applied to Nexflow configuration so that it does not need to be set each time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Doing that token setup regularly can get a bit tedious, but the same setup can be applied in configuration applied to Nexflow configuration so that it does not need to be set each time.
```

This can be the `nextflow.config` file of a specific project, or the global file located at `$HOME/.nextflow/config`, which will apply to all your runs.

Before we set the configuration, we need to permanently store the token in Nextflow using a [Nextflow secret](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/secrets.html):

```bash
nextflow secrets set tower_access_token "eyxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxQ1ZTE="

> ```

Reviewer 3: Do we need to warn people there's something they shouldn't share or is this automatically idiot-proof? (I'm asking as the potential idiot)

> ```

Author: Added warning above when the token is generated.
